Christian Delahousse


Project name: Redshift
Site: http://jonls.dk/redshift/

Computer monitors have an inherit problem. As day turns to night and a computer user
starts to depend on different sources of light, the ambient colour temperature starts
to clash with the monitor's constant temperature. [1] Monitor's typically have a
color temperature around 6,500-9,300K, well above a house lamp's range of 3000-5000K.
This, unfortunately, has ill effects for the Human Circadian Rhythm; [2] your body
thinks it is day when it is truly night.

Flux was a small project developed to solve this problem. It gained popularity, but
unfortunately was OSX and Windows only. Redshift was one developer's attempt at
fixing this problem from Linux. It is not a port, but a re-imagining.

The project has a few components. Its heart is the redshift daemon, written in C,
which interacts with the X server to incrementally change the colour temperature
according to your location and time of day. The program also has a GTK interface,
written in Python, for the Gnome indicator panel.

My primary documentation focus would be on the configuration files to fulfill a
request by the developer. There are also some recent feature additions that haven't
been fully documented. When I first started using the program, I ran into many
problems and had to work around them through scripts. I'd like to document these
troubleshooting tips. I would also like to explore the different methods of building
or installing the program. You can do so by source, using the official Ubuntu repos
or using custom repos.

This project is useful from an operating system and sysadmin's perspective because
I will be able to describe it's use of the X server and describe the scripts used in
trouble shooting.


[1] Colour temperature means the amber or blue quality of white light.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_temperature
[2] http://stereopsis.com/flux/research.html
